## Code Repository for Master Thesis `Fairness-Aware Multilingual Information Retrieval`

This repository contains the code for my master thesis. It includes a conda environment file (`environment.yml`), this README file, and three folders: `indexers`, `experiments`, and `demo`.

## Repository Structure

- **indexers**
  - `Li_indexer_eng.py`
  - `Li_indexer_fas.py`
  - `Li_indexer_rus.py`
  - `Li_indexer_zho.py`

- **experiments**
  - `Li_CLIR_Fas_1000_Retrieve_Translate_Rank.ipynb`
  - `Li_CLIR_Zho_1000_Retrieve_Translate_Rank.ipynb`
  - `mlir_experiment.py`
  - `Li_CLIR_Rus_1000_Retrieve_Translate_Rank.ipynb`
  - `Li_get_dict_docid_lang.ipynb`

- **demo**
  - `clirnews.py`

## Installation

To run the code, you need to have PyLucene installed. Here are the instructions on how to install PyLucene from the [official website](https://lucene.apache.org/pylucene/install.html):

### Building PyLucene

PyLucene is completely code-generated by JCC whose sources are included with the PyLucene sources.

#### Requirements

To build PyLucene, a Java Development Kit (JDK) is required; use of the resulting PyLucene binaries requires only a Java Runtime Environment (JRE). A recent C/C++ compiler is also required.

- Starting with release 9.x, Lucene requires Java 11 or above.
- Starting with release 6.x, Lucene requires Java 1.8.

On macOS and Linux, the Temurin JDK is recommended. See "Notes for Linux" on the PyLucene install page for installation instructions on Linux Debian 11.

On any system, if you're upgrading your Java installation, please rebuild JCC as well. You must use the same version of Java for both JCC and PyLucene.

A modern version of `setuptools` is required for building JCC in shared mode. See JCC's installation instructions for more information.

#### Quick Installation Guide

```bash
pushd jcc
# Edit setup.py to match your environment
python setup.py build
sudo python setup.py install
popd
# Edit Makefile to match your environment
make
make test # (look for failures)
sudo make install
```

For more detailed instructions, please refer to the [official documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/pylucene/install.html).

## Usage

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/linool/clirnews.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the repository directory:
    ```bash
    cd clirnews
    ```
3. Create and activate the conda environment:
    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    conda activate clir
    ```
4. Run the desired Jupyter notebooks or Python scripts from the respective folders (`indexers`, `experiments`, or `demo`).

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
